

Global Credit Enquiry and Monitoring System:
	FX, IRSs, FRAs, Currency Options, MMkts and Fixed Income
	
	Up to dated data is kept in the system through intra-day feeds and re-aggregating exposures for any counter-parties that are reaching their limits.
	Various credit ratings are also maintained in the system.
	
	· A graphical representation of Counterparty Credit Risk exposure
	· The ability to re-profile intra-day and potentially reduce exposure.
	· Profile Simulation
	· Reporting Suite
	· Standard Format of Reports
	· Limits and Utilisation Reports
	· Close-out Reports
	· Excess Reports including "No Limit" excesses
	· Rejected Trades         
	· Real-time updates
	· Reports by dealing centre
	· Cross Product Information
	· FX 
	· Money Markets
	· Currency Options
	· Swaps & Fras
	· Fixed Income

	Part of the Pre-processing phase involves linking (also known as mapping) of entities in the feed and the entities in the system. Entities that fail mapping are stored in the failed trades are for mandatory mappings. Non-mandatory mappings are associated to types of "miscellaneous". Generic trade, profile and attribute files are produced, and are BCPed (Bulk Copy Process) into their relevant tables. A Reconciliation (REC) phase is conducted to find new trades by area (MM, Risk MI, etc.). The REC process may user database Cursors to iterate through the database, and may be extremely inefficient. The 'feed trades table' is differenced to 'system trades table' to determine the New, Amended and Unchanged trades. These trades are input into a Trade Processor, which eventually stores the successful candidates into the live Trade tables within the system.
	
	Key features of the system:
	- Global cross product Credit Risk Monitoring system.
	- It provides netted and profiled credit exposures aggregated at a counterparty, currency pair level for all of FM's products.
	- Monitors intraday risk, supplies availability information to Front Office systems, supports Credit Admin Unit on a day to day basis.
	- EOD Environment supports Finance Regulatory Reporting.
	- System is available on a 7x24 hour basis.
	- It ensures that FM is not exposed to any excessive or unauthorised credit risk while dealing in the FX, Currency Options, Swaps & FRAs, Fixed Income and Money Markets.
	- It permits the assessment of credit risk to be carried out globally and on an intraday basis. Deals entered in one site (for example Hong Kong) feed through to the System Server (located in London). When a trader in New York makes an enquiry on a counterparty, the System server sends details of the amounts available under the current credit limits taking into account the deal made in Hong Kong.
	- Its users are located in various centres, and takes multiple feeds
	
	

	Aggregation Process:
	Aggregation comprises the summation of individual trade profiles by:
		· Counterparty
		· Product
		· Dealing Centre
	This then gives an overall counterparty exposure

	

E-Commerce activities:	
	Deal Clearance:
	Collateral Management:
	Netting:
	Limits:

Front Office activities:
	Special Sanctions:
	Trade Overwrites:
	Linking of the Trades:
	
GDS:
	Global Derivatives System, GDS is an application that provides a full life-cycle derivatives trading system covering front office, trading and back-office settlement functions. It encompasses trade, market and static data, and provides official risk and pnl for disparate downstream systems and user groups.
	It is a trade booking store where all the trades are booked and sends the feeds to FM. FM receives the feeds from both GDS and FIRE, consolidates and sends it to down-streams.
	=>
	Global Derivatives System. GDS is an application that encompasses trade, market and static data, and provides official risk and pnl for disparate downstream systems and user groups.

	Live trades in the active portfolios are submitted in the batch. These trades are of two types.
		Validated - OTC(Over the Counter Trades)
		Inventoried - ETI\SHARED(Exchange Trades)

	MTM & CRE are calculated based on the values of gbp_credit_mtm and gbp_cre in GDS*.crd (credit).
	
	CLU is calculated based on the value of MAX of credit_mtm_up_shift, credit_mtm_zero_shift, credit_mtm_down_shift in GDS*.mtm (profile).
	
	Logic for gbp_clu calculation:
	- Use calculated clu from the table risk_common..trade_overwrite, if not found then
	- Use calculated clu from *.mtm file, if not found then
	- Use calculated clu from *.crd file.
	
	NOTE: In case of synthetic records, we do not calculate clu, mtm, amount for Issuer Risk.

	There is no null pointer exception if we pass clu, clu_up, clu_down, clu_ccy fields as blank in *.crd file.
	Blank values in the fields clu, clu_up, and clu_down are allowed.
	Proper value in the clu_ccy field is mandatory. The clu_ccy is used to get the GBP spot rate.
	NOTE: Unavailability of GBP spot rate is considered as failure by the System.
	If clu field is blank, it is considered to be 0.000000.
	clu_up and clu_down fields are ignored. These fields could safely be left as blank).
	The calculated clu is passed as gbp_clu (36th field) in the *_trades.tsv.

	accrued_interest (28th fields in *.bk_acc) is used to calculate the accrued interest in ccy and gbp.
	These values are passed in SB*_attributes.tsv under attribute types "ACCINTCCY" and "ACCINTGBP" respectively.
	accrued_interest field in *.bk_acc is allowed to be left as blank. In this case, it is considered to be 0.000000.
	Followed fields Cash, Pv, Accrual Start Date, Accrual End Date, Days to Accrue, Accrued Fee, and Accrual of back end premium are ignored. These fields could safely be left as blank.
	
Overwrite feeds:
	Overwrite involves amendments of MTMs for the trades already loaded in the system.
	For each row of data in the field, the value of deal ticket number and Book id serve as identifiers or the keys.
	NOTE: only those records are processed where the identifier values match the values in the table.

	In case of GDS, every row contains information about "PRIME BOOK" (which is a non phoenix book).In order to obtain the gds book corresponding to this prime book we query prime_gds_map table , which maintains a mapping of gdsBooks for each prime book 

GDS Feeds per portfolio (book id):	
	bcl = Break Clause Records
	bk_acc = Accrued Interest Records
	bnd = Bond Positions
	cf = Cash Flow
	crd =  Credit Utilisation/Reserve
	dsch = Option Date Schedules
	fmtm = Finance Profiles
	fsch = Fixing Date Schedules
	mtm = Profiles
	mtm_new = 14 Shift Profiles
	ofl = Offlegs
	onl = Legs ""on"" balance sheet
	      On Balance Components (Coupons)
	pri = Principle Exchanges
	syn = Synthetic
	tde = Trades
	ndod = Day on Day information
	edod = Euro Day on Day information
	fdn = Futures Definition
	fpn = Futures Positions
	lnk = Linked Deals
	pos = Bond Positions
	msc = Miscellaneous TDB stuff
	dat = Cashflow feed for local markets portfolios only
	bsk = New feed with CDO tranche and Nth default trade info GDS-2406

GDLNDDNPP.dat = misfit


	
DSL Netting:
	The DSL netting is applied as per the trade's fx_net_indicator, which is initially set by table risk_common..fx_net_branch only.
	Not any logic was found in code where all branch cis are included automatically under any main cis code for DSL netting purpose; so it seems like DSL netting should be applied one by one for each branch code, only main cis code's entry might not be sufficient to make all branches under it dsl nettable.
	DSL netting is applied on Our-side Branch (centre_code) and Counter-party Branch (branch_cis) and is defined in table risk_common..fx_net_branch.


Key terms:
---------
Finance Regulatory Reporting	
Exposures:
Credit:
	Credit is a contractual agreement in which a borrower receives something of value now and agrees to repay the lender at some later date with consideration, generally with interest.
	Credit also refers to an accounting entry that either decreases assets or increases liabilities and equity on the company's balance sheet. Additionally, on the company's income statement, a debit reduces net income, while a credit increases net income.
	
	There are many different forms of credit. When banks offer their clients car loans, mortgages, signature loans and lines of credit, those are all forms of credit. Essentially, the bank has credited money to the borrower, and the borrower must pay it back at a future date.
	
Line of Credit (LOC):
	A line of credit (LOC) is an arrangement between a financial institution – usually a bank – and a customer that establishes the maximum loan amount the customer can borrow. The borrower can access funds from the line of credit at any time as long as they do not exceed the maximum amount (or credit limit) set in the agreement and meet any other requirements such as making timely minimum payments.
	
	A line of credit has built-in flexibility, which is its main advantage. Borrowers can request a certain amount, but they do not have to use it all. Rather, they can tailor their spending on the LOC to their needs and owe interest only on the amount they draw, not on the entire credit line. In addition, borrowers can adjust their repayment amounts as needed, based on their budget or cash flow. They can repay, for example, the entire outstanding balance all at once or just make the minimum monthly payments.
	
	A line of credit is a type of revolving account, also known as an open-end credit account. This arrangement allows borrowers to spend the money, repay it and spend it again in a virtually never-ending, revolving cycle. Revolving accounts such as lines of credit and credit cards are different from installment loans such as mortgages, car loans and signature loans. With installment loans, also known as closed-end credit accounts, consumers borrow a set amount of money and repay it in equal monthly installments until the loan is paid off. Once an installment loan has been paid off, consumers cannot spend the funds again unless they apply for a new loan.
	
	An LOC can be secured (by collateral) or unsecured, with unsecured LOCs typically subject to higher interest rates.
	NOTE: Lines of credit do not provide the same regulatory protection as credit cards. Penalties for late payments and going over the LOC limit can be severe.
	
Credit Limit:
	Credit limit refers to the maximum amount of credit a financial institution extends to a client through a line of credit as well as the maximum amount a credit card company allows a borrower to spend on a single card. Lenders usually set credit limits based on information in the application of the person seeking credit.
	
CLU (Credit Limit Utilisation):


Credit ratings:
	A credit rating is an assessment of the creditworthiness of a borrower in general terms or with respect to a particular debt or financial obligation. A credit rating can be assigned to any entity that seeks to borrow money — an individual, corporation, state or provincial authority, or sovereign government.
	Credit assessment and evaluation for companies and governments is generally done by a credit rating agency such as Standard & Poor’s (S&P), Moody’s, or Fitch. These rating agencies are paid by the entity that is seeking a credit rating for itself or for one of its debt issues.
	A loan is essentially a promise, and a credit rating determines the likelihood that the borrower will pay back a loan within the confines of the loan agreement, without defaulting.
	NOTE: Credit ratings apply to businesses and government, while credit scores apply only to individuals. 
	NOTE: Moody's was the first agency to issue publicly available credit ratings for bonds, in 1909.
	NOTE: While providing the rating, the rating agencies must take a balanced and objective view of the borrower’s financial situation and capacity to service/repay the debt.
	
	
Credit Score:
	A credit score is a statistical number that evaluates a consumer's creditworthiness and is based on credit history. Lenders use credit scores to evaluate the probability that an individual will repay his or her debts. A person's credit score ranges from 300 to 850, and the higher the score, the more financially trustworthy a person is considered to be.
	Credit scores are derived from the credit history maintained by credit-reporting agencies such as Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion.
	Credit bureaus in India: CIBIL, Equifax, Crisil Limited, ICRA Limited, Experian
	
Credit Risk:
Market Risk:

Reval Rates (Revaluation Rates):
	Revaluation rates are market currency rates from a specific point in time that are used as a base value by currency traders to assess whether a profit or a loss has been realized for the day. In most cases, the revaluation rate is the closing rate for the previous trading day.
	Revaluation rates are often referred to as just "reval rates".

Retail investors:	

Risk Profile:
	A risk profile is an evaluation of an individual's willingness and ability to take risks. It can also refer to the threats to which an organization is exposed. A risk profile is important for determining a proper investment asset allocation for a portfolio. Organizations use a risk profile as a way to mitigate potential risks and threats. 

Trade Profiles:
	The Trade Profiles provide standard information on the structural trade situation and trade policy measures of members, observers and other selected economies. The profiles are complemented with general macroeconomic indicators. 
	
Profiling:
	Grid point
	up
	zero
	down
	gross amount
	mtm
	clu
	cre
	
	There is one profile_id corresponding to one trade. There are multiple grid points corresponding to a profile_id.
	
	
FX Profile:	
	Standard grid points (number of calender days) are used to generate profile for FX trades.
	We calculate profile of a trade for number of calender days between start_day and end_day.
	Grid point zero = today.
	Following information are used:
		Convert the pay currency to GBP spot rate if not equity index.
		
		Use factor from tenor band to calculate gross amount.
		

Credit profile:
	
Types of trades:
	FX Trades (FX)
	Fixed Income (FI)
		Loan
			REPO Loan
			Security Loan
			Loan Depo
		Collateral
			REPO Collateral
			Security Collateral
			Collateral Movement
		Security
		FX
		FX Swap Near Leg
		FX Swap Far Leg
	Exotic Options (ECO)
	Vanilla Options (CO)(Pabulum)
	Greenwich Bonds
	Wall Street FX Trades 
	Ulster Bank M M Trades 
	Equity Derivatives 
	(IRD)
	
Global financial market:
	
Equity Index:

Exotic rate:

Profit and Loss Statement (P&L):
	•Core Deal PnL
	•Core PnL
	•Deal PnL
	•HedgePnL
	•Risk PnL
	•Sales PnL
	•Total PnL
	•Transit PnL

	UnRealised PnL:
		Is the PnL that the trader would have if they had to close out their books at current market prices. Its volatile as its based on rapidly changing prices
	
	Realised PnL:
		This is the PnL got from trading a position back towards zero.

Present Value:
Principle Overwrite:
Notional Overwrites:
		
opening Bid/ask
Inflation, Options and Swaps.
cusip
CIS code
mtm
cre
clu


Abbreviation:
CLU = credit limit utilization = 
COB = Close of Business Day = 
CP = Closing Price = 
CRE = Credit Reserve = 
ECO = Exotic Currency Options = 
EMS = Enterprise Message Service = 
EOD = End of Business Day = 
FM = FeedManager = 
GBM =  = 
GDS = Global Derivatives System = 
GRS = Global Risk System = 
HISP = High-yield Investment Synthetic Position = 
HTSP = High-yield Trading Synthetic Position = 
ins = instrument = 
ICE = Intercontinental Exchange = 
MTM = Mark to market  = 
NPV = Net Present Value = 
ODC = Operational Data Centre  = 
OTC = Over the Counter = 
pid =  (Profile Identifier) = 
PIR = Phoenix Issuer Risk = An Issuer Risk measurement and reporting system used for predeal checking, limit utilisation and excess management 
PnL = Profit & Loss = 
PV = Present Value = 
SDM =  = book_control data 
		 Trading party data
SDS =  = netting data
SISP = Standard Investment Synthetic Position = 
SSI = Settlement Instructions = 
STSP = Standard Trading Synthetic Position = 
TCP = Trading Counterparties = 
