"Spring Framework can deliver declarative transaction management using AOP."
"Spring offers more options for managing the lifecycles of managed OBJECTS" 


Shortcomings in J2EE architecture:
It results into applications that 
- are more complex than their business requirements warrant, 
- show disappointing performance,
- are hard to test (Due to its heavy dependence on the EJB container, business logic coded in EJB is very hard to test.)
- cost too much to develop and maintain.

*EJB application codes are dependent on the EJB container.

Dynamic proxies (introduced with J2SE 1.3) make it awkward to use multiple source files needed to implement every EJB.

Spring wasn’t conceived as an alternative to EJB, but it provides powerful, tested, implementations of
features, such as declarative transaction management for plain Java objects, that enable users to dispense
with EJB in many projects.

Spring has excellent support for architectural refactoring.

--------------------------------------------------------
When to use EJB:
EJB remains the best choice for applications that genuinely need object distribution, especially if they are
implemented wholly in Java or need to use IIOP as the communication protocol. This type of application
is rarer than might be imagined.

EJB is also a pretty good solution for applications that are heavily based around messaging, as message
driven beans are relatively simple and effective components.

One of the best examples of an application type to which EJB may add real value is financial middleware.
Financial applications can involve processing that is so costly in time and computing power that
the cost of remote invocation is (atypically) less than the cost of processing. For such applications, object
distribution makes sense, and EJB is a good way of implementing it. Financial middleware is also heavily
message-oriented, and suited to use of MDBs.
--------------------------------------------------------
The values and goals we should keep in mind as we design an application:
- Simplicity
? Productivity
? The importance of object orientation
? The primacy of business requirements
? The importance of empirical process
? The importance of testability


--------------------------------------------------------



